Okay.
Awesome. Um…
This is the Open Global Mind
I think there were a few women on there, too, which surprised me.
Uh, in… in the group chat. Oh, good. This is the Open Global Mind, uh, weekly call
not surprising to me.
for October 16th.
2025. We were just bantering a little bit.
Dave and I have been in, uh, for the week, and Dave, I have to apologize, I haven't been able to make your sessions, because…
they've overlapped with stuff. We've been part of a…
Sketch Your Mind virtual workshop all week that a Hungarian friend, Jolt Vichyan,
decided to throw, and it's been great. It's been really, like…
Um, I found it super useful, like, I got to
do a brain demo session on Tuesday morning.
Dave, I don't know if you have any thoughts about it, but…
I thought it was great, and it was well received, I think.
And it's… what's nice is he's attracted a good who's who of people who care about visualization and graphic facilitation,
And thinking with pictures, and uh… aces like Dave, who've been, uh,
putting concepts into visuals for years and years and years and years and years.
And it's collaborative, it's… it's…
there's a very nice… there's a very nice feel to it, where, you know,
kind of attending one another's sessions and on from there.
I will put a link to the…
Uh, the conference in…
the chat. Sketch Your Mind is the name of it.
And, uh, I'll put a link to it in the chat.
And then…
Off we go. And then, Stacy, I wanted to mention to you that I just recorded… I just recorded a podcast, uh…
about masculinity, with Mo Carrick.
I'll put a link to her, uh…
her bio… her LinkedIn, uh…
in the chat as well. I met her when I was in Berkeley at the Responsive Conference, and we had a really delightful conversation about
all aspects about masculinity, so I'm gonna do… I have to do some very, very light editing on it.
And then post that.
Thank you. Look forward to that.
And… and maybe, I mean, a good idea might be to… I'll post that, and then we can have a…
That is a topic for an OGM call.
See what happens. See how that goes.
groovy. Nice to see everybody here.
I like that.
I, uh, sent… I was inspired, uh,
for this topic just by recent news, and…
And by, uh, kind of an awareness that generally, but not exclusively or entirely, this is a left-leaning group.
We sort of have attracted like minds,
Uh, and some of us are more toward the middle, but very few of us are out on the right wing of political opinion these days.
And when things happen, uh, we tend to have a similar response, and uh…
I was struck recently that, uh,
through bluster and force, and I don't know what else, other kinds of things, uh, Donald Trump seems to have cracked some
on the Gaza situation.
And achieved a ceasefire and an exchange of hostages, which ends the hostage problem
for the moment. Uh, there are no remaining October 7 hostages that we know of.
alive or dead. I guess maybe some of the bodies have yet to be recovered and returned, but…
In general, that thing is resolved.
how Gaza plays out, we don't know. Uh, if Trump has his way, it'll turn into a resort city with, you know, large Trump
towers on it, a thought that chills my blood, but hey, there we are.
He seems to have dropped… he seems to have dropped that.
Uh, I… maybe.
He's also apparently got…
never know anything with him, yeah.
Yeah, he's apparently also got plans on his, uh, in the Oval Office, he's got mock-ups of…
A new arc of triumph kind of thing, opposite, uh…
Opposite Arlington National Cemetery, across the river, and he's adding stuff like the ballroom and other sorts of things to the…
the White House, gilding it all in gold, etc. He's leaving his mark. He's absolutely leaving his mark.
But I'm straying from our topic.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, in a way that I don't particularly want to, because I kind of want to… I'll come back to it.
Then, then I heard the news that I didn't realize,
but that the recent, um, the, uh…
the Nobel… the Nobel Peace Prize winner.
Maria Corina Machado.
dedicated her Nobel Prize to the people of Venezuela and Donald Trump.
And I sort of googled that, and I saw… well, I googled that, and I saw an article from The Nation that was like, oh my god, what a sellout, this is terrible, blah blah blah.
And then I heard some backstory.
And the backstory I heard, which I'll share here, which is Googleable also, if you're looking for it,
was that Trump is the only president who has actually sent, like, Navy offshore.
And started to actively do stuff that is helpful to…
people against Maduro. He's put a $40 million bounty on Maduro's head. Whether that's even legal in the world, I don't know.
likely that it's not.
But somehow or other, through, uh… and the reason that Machado…
dedicates their award to him is he has actually done something, and moved the needle, and, and…
Sometimes you move the needle by scratching the record.
I don't know, I'm stretching the metaphor.
But I'm left-leaning, and I was like, ah!
How do I process this? How do I handle this? And I'd like us not to talk about…
Trump and Machado and this particular incident, but rather…
Other instances of hearing stuff that conflicts with our worldview,
And figuring out, do we shift our worldview some? What do we do? How do we do that? I'd rather focus there…
Then on the incident, although I will understand if we need to spend some time decompressing the incident right now. Uh, so Gil.
Yeah, so the topic for today is shifting one's worldview?
Um, no, the topic is just, uh, dealing with uncomfortable news.
Ah, okay.
Uh, which taps into shifting one's worldview, but it's just like, how do we handle news that doesn't fit our world?
view, is maybe the generalization of the topic.
Yeah. Got it. Good topic, and plenty of opportunity for that these days.
Um, just on the immediate one, and maybe this is a good cutting… jumping-off point, I don't…
I'm not of the mind that someone should get the Nobel Peace Prize for putting warships off somebody's coast.
kind of doesn't fit my picture of a Nobel Peace Prize. On the other hand, um…
Um, I'm… I'm…
cautiously impressed with what Trump has done.
in the Middle East, but I also don't think that somebody should get the Nobel Peace Prize for starting an initiative. I don't think
Obama should have gotten it when he did.
Obama, the Peace Prize he got seems completely ridiculous.
Yeah.
No, it was… it was performative, and I don't think Trump should deserve it now, but he might well deserve it in a year, if this thing holds.
Yeah, and that's… and that challenges my pictures of a bumbling, narcissistic, um, you know, uh, baby guy.
Kimmel's been reaming him beautifully every night, and really brilliant work going on there.
But that doesn't mean that he can't do some things successfully and well.
And it may be that just the character that he brings to it was very different than Biden's.
Yeah.
could generate movement in the Middle East that nobody else could. So, cautiously optimistic there.
Big change in my worldview, because I have him on the neg list for everything, except now.
one thing's moved over. Maybe.
Maybe.
Maybe, maybe, maybe. Okay, good. So, so I, I want to loosen up that part of the topic. My buddy Al Chang, who always says wise things and always thinks differently than I do, but we can talk really, really well.
Um, said a while ago that it's as if there's this set of facts on the ground,
And the left and the right are seeing…
Roughly the same fact, roughly. Not always.
Mmm…
But roughly the same facts, but have a completely different movie script around them, a totally different narrative.
But the narratives are relatively consistent.
and work. And the two sides can't see or read each other's narratives. They're incapable, and this is…
This is… I'm paraphrasing Al badly, but he really kind of made me slow down a little bit, and think, how do I steal man
the opposing narrative. How do I actually…
He put my brain into it, and listened for those different parts. So when Trump was like, I've stopped eight wars,
I used Claude and ChatGBT to say, hey, what has… and Trump has actually… he has sent his people…
all over the place to do stuff, and he claimed credit for India, Pakistan, which infuriated Modi,
and is stupid, but the other things that he claims to have done, he's actually been, like, on the ground, not him on the ground, his people have been doing stuff that hasn't been done before.
And that's very interesting to me, because he gives a damn about, like, you know, making a mark in foreign policy,
with his particular imprimatur. Anyway…
Um, Mike.
I don't know where to go exactly, but let me start by just saying that the commentary about the Nobel.
Peace Prize was… she said it's dedicated.
to the people of Venezuela, and that she thanks.
Trump. I don't think… I don't think she used the word dedicated it.
I've got the…
I've got the quote, um, it's dedicated. Uh, it's, um…
Oops, let me see where I've… how did I… I'll find it, but um…
Well, most of the quotations have been. sort of two-phase. But anyway.
So here, let me read it.
Um, the fact is, is that she's in a bind. She has to be as obsequious as possible.
That's a way of reading it, but listen to this. I dedicate that last sentence of a long post on X.
That's…
I dedicate this prize to the suffering people of Venezuela,
and to President Trump for his decisive support of our cause, exclamation point.
That's the quote.
Well, the first round, I mean, she actually… I think she actually called him up.
Yes. They had a call.
And said, you know. Yeah, but again, it's… if you're in her position.
And you've got somebody who's angry he doesn't have the Peace Prize, and you need his help.
I mean, whether those words reflect what she really believes is what I'm saying.
Which I agree with.
But the other thing I wanted to say is that, um.
I've been using the phrase cosplay. diplomacy, over and over again.
Because that's what we're seeing. I mean, these claims that he somehow reconciled or stopped a fight between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
I mean… it's… these are temporary things that are happening, but.
let's wait 5 years and look back, and particularly with Gaza. I mean, Gaza, he says he has a deal.
And maybe in the New York City real estate.
sense of the word deal. He has a deal where, okay.
We've got a common goal, and now let's figure out the details.
But no diplomat. would claim that what… Hamas said they would half agree to.
is a final deal. I mean, it's already falling apart.
So, in many ways, this is like the way that Trump ended the.
U.S. Involvement in Afghanistan. He didn't talk to the Afghan government, he talked to the Taliban, and they got a deal.
Which was completely vague, and didn't have any. Any checks, any way of making sure both parties did their… did their, um, fulfilled their piece of the deal.
And for his convenience. he set it up so that.
the withdrawal happened after he was out of office.
Great.
And Biden got to have all this egg on his face because of an incompetent deal.
That, uh. Trump and his team had agreed to.
And I really worry that if you've got a deal with Hamas that says they will disarm, but they explicitly said, we didn't agree to that part of the deal.
But he still thinks he deserves a peace prize.
But let me get… let me… let me change topics to a third thing that… is very personal, and that is… Two days ago, I got some incredibly… unforeseen, incredible… outrageous, very upsetting news.
about one of my favorite colleagues here at Carnegie, and some of you may have seen this story.
We have one of the very top analysts who studies.
Indian military and geopolitics. And his house was raided recently by the FBI, and they found.
more than a thousand top secret and confidential documents.
And, you know, he's been an advisor to the State Department, he knows full well how to handle classified documents.
But it's, you know, it's leading to all sorts of stories about, is he a spy for the Chinese? He hasn't been accused of that, but… It's… it's just astonishing that someone… if this is true, how could someone so smart and so…
experienced be so stupid. It's a little bit like Sandy Berger.
Clinton's National Security Advisor. who went to the archives and decided to take a couple documents and stuff them in his pants and walk out the door.
But on a much larger scale. And so, again, I mean, this was just… it's a complete disconnect.
From everything I know about this scholar, and it makes no sense, and… I'm having a very hard time dealing with it. I don't know how I will.
Yeah, Mike. Thank you very much for offering up a completely different example of this thing going on, because that's…
That's what I'd love to focus on, is how to…
How do we handle unwelcome, un…
ill-fitting news in our worldview.
And do we allow our worldviews to be permeable to things like that, or not? Or how? Or, like, what's that…
What's that juncture? Um, thank you.
All right, Kevin, please.
Uh, you took your hand down, but you… oh, there you go, there you go, you did unmute.
Yeah, um, you know, so this is actually the opposite of that. I've got some surprisingly great news. I don't know how to put together.
Um, some people know, you know, our house was rendered uninhabitable, and one in six houses in our low-status neighborhood.
of Swan and Oak were rendered either, uh. destroyed or uninhabited, about 400 houses.
And we've been asked to do a housing plan for the folks, most of the Latino folks moved there because it was the cheapest place in the county.
Wow.
And, uh, starting to work with the community on it, and they're really a lot of credibility. And we got an outreach this week through my son, and we're gonna have 25 old order Mennonite carpenters working… living on our farm, and they're self-contained, you know.
trucks and whatever they do. They're gonna, um, build houses for free from May.
Through, uh, November through May, and want to do it again, uh, next year.
And, um… They're also going to leave behind a 30 by 40 foot, uh, what is going to be their, uh.
mess hall, eating room, whatever, and we'll have this building, and they're gonna rehab our house for free, you know, do the… at least the sheetrock and the, uh… the, uh, installation and stuff, we have to decide, you know, if it's a…
becomes an Airbnb, you don't need the large mudroom that we had for 5 people, so you have to do some other things. But it's just amazingly, surprisingly good. You know, they're gonna clean it up, and they're gonna fix the house for free, and they're gonna build.
About 20 houses for free, so that, you know, our… are ready for our fund.
It went down by, you know, the labor on 20 houses is not… no longer in our math, really, for the first year, so it's like.
Well, you know, sometimes things happen like that, too. I just need to, you know.
Sometimes there are days like that, where everything… I do a brief thing, I was taking my son on a college trip, he's 407 of them, so whatever.
But we, uh… We're flying upstate New York to Bart, I think it was, and uh… We got upgraded to first class, and we got, you know, champagne or whatever in the morning, and then we got to the hotel.
And it was apparently closed, but there was this massive Samoan guy working on the phones, and he said, just grab a key, and nobody ever came, so we sampled single mouse.
from the deck that, you know, that's my first sampling of single moths.
We went to the movie Smoke, and they said, oh, we're through taking tickets, just go inside.
So I told him, I said, Lord, you know.
Sometimes there are days like this, you know? And so, you know, suddenly, you know, 25 to 30 older… and they wear straw hats, and they get driven around, and… They'll bring some porcher on things, but they have, you know, they have people drive their.
They're semi-trailer with all their tools. They use power tools, but it's just like, you know, sometimes things happen like that. I just need to say.
That's brilliant. I'm happy to hear happy news around, so I don't know, thank you.
Love that. Um, Gil, please.
Yeah, stitching together all these new resources is going to be really complicated. I need people who are…
Yeah. Kevin, why… why is that a challenge to your worldview?
much better at figuring out how to handle that than I am, and there are people around, so…
Why is all that good stuff that's happened a challenge to your worldview, given that that's the theme here?
Why is what?
Oh, it doesn't show… no, sometimes things happen like that, it just… then you have to deal with this… this, you know, surprising abundance requires lots of coordination, you know? That's… I mean, you know.
It would require lots of coordination. It doesn't challenge… no, it challenges the worldview in here, saying, let's think about bad things. I was saying, no, let's think about good things, too.
Good deal. I love it.
Jerry, by the way, could you raise the gain on your mic? You're much softer than everybody else.
Yeah, with your fam- with your…
Oh, interesting. Um, I've actually switched over to this mic, is it…
You can fancy… with your fancy new mic.
Yeah, no. Thank you.
Um, couple of things. Back on the Machado thing, it seems that obsequiousness is one of the required things with this president, and if you've watched a cabinet meeting, you know, you can see that in full cringe.
Um, seems to be a necessary part of any conversation.
Back to what you're saying, Jerry, about left and right seeing the same facts and developing different interpretations. You know that I'm… I'm… excuse me.
I'm big on interpretations, I'm not big on facts these days. I think we live in interpretations, and that's
part of the currency of human affairs and where it gets really interesting.
But part of the challenge right now is that left and right are not seeing the same facts.
Folks are in deep, deep bubbles.
Uh, not even being exposed to the same information, things that we think are obvious, uh, you know, folks who are living on Fox never see.
And vice versa. So it's a whole other layer of challenge.
to how we have reasonable conversations when we're just looking at, you know, utterly same detail.
In personal terms, I've found that happening with me around the whole Gaza situation over the last 3 or 4 months, where I've come to the conclusion that I have no fucking clue.
of what was going on there.
I don't trust Hamas and the Gaza Health Ministry or news services or anything like that. I don't trust the Israeli government's information.
But don't trust the UN. Um, and I try to piece together stories from anomalous reports that contradict each other.
from people who aren't there. And I'm not there.
And I've… it's very strange for me to come to the conclusion that I really don't know what happened.
And I'm happy to go into detail about that. I've done some numerical analysis.
Excuse me of some of the data that's been reported, and things just don't…
cohere. From what I can see. And it's forced the kind of humility on me
that's really unfamiliar.
I'm used to being able to, you know, look at a bunch of complex information and draw a conclusion that I have some confidence in.
And… can't, in that case. So, double layer, not seeing the same facts, and
you know, mix-up facts that don't fit together.
makes this even more challenging.
Um, thanks, y'all. Is my voice a little louder? I found the gain and turned it up.
It's better now, thanks.
Is it loud enough? Should I turn it up more?
Somebody else say something.
We're good? Uh…
No, let's have somebody else say something, compare levels.
Oh, somebody else to compare levels.
Yeah, sounds fine, Jerry.
Okay, good. Thank you for… uh, Gil, thank you very much for pointing that out.
No, it sounds good to me, Jerry.
Um, on the point of not seeing the same facts, I want to complexify that a little bit, if I can borrow Adam Grant's term.
There's a book out called Progressive Myths. I'll put a link to it in the chat.
And I only know about it because my buddy Sammy McElhanan,
Uh, Finn, who lives in Melbourne,
wrote a review about it,
And, uh, he said, this… and I'm just realizing this moment that this is a reason for the topic that we're on right now, is that this was in the back of my head.
And I hadn't realized that, uh, you know, I didn't connect it to the Gaza news.
And apparently in this book,
a lot of what happened, which I've not read, a lot of what happens is
Uh, the taking apart of, of, uh, situations where left and right disagree, and seeing that
Uh, the situations are more complicated than you thought they were.
that it isn't black and white, that it isn't this or that. And from my conversation with Al,
I think… I think the left sees… I think a lot of the left believes that the right isn't even seeing things that happened.
When what's happening sometimes, sometimes on the right,
is they're seeing the incident, but they're gathering different information about it and seeing it with a different lens or a different…
disaggregation of components. I don't know exactly how to say it.
Um, and since I haven't read the book, I don't know the details in it.
But that's a piece of what I'm aiming for, is…
hey, how do we…
Might we be able to have more interesting conversations about things that have happened if we allowed
the complexity to show up in this space, and the possibility that
The other side isn't completely stupid and evil.
Which, which I hear a lot.
like, really. Years ago, in 2015…
Dean, I think this was before the 2016 election,
April and I visited some deer family friends who live in Boulder, and we had a friendly political conversation in which I said,
Trump is actually sort of smarter than people think he is. And there was no synonym for smart that I could use that would make them go, oh, okay, we sort of agree. So we had a little bet going, and it was… it turned into a funny thing.
But, you know, smart like a mafia Don, maybe? I don't know, but it's some sort of intelligent, because nobody survives 91 federal indict… 91 indictments.
Um, and winds up running the world, and, you know, closing a deal in Gaza, who isn't… who is an idiot.
Like, I don't see how you can just be lucky enough to do that.
Um, and… and I'll put a link to my… in fact, I created some videos
Uh, during the pandemic about Trump. I created a field manual around Donald Trump. It's 6 videos.
I'll just put a link to the playlist, and the very first one is, Trump is smarter than people think.
Right? And it's hard to say. Uh, and so I'm trying to figure out,
How do we not make the situations black and white, and like, oh my god, when they do hateful things,
Like, boast that they… that they have to be given a Nobel Peace Prize. What person in their right mind does that?
Like, nobody goes and says, you must give me this award, I deserve… like, that's…
Well, okay, maybe that's just that this guy's style. And…
And there are things that Trump and his minions have done which are horrifying and are hurting… are harming people.
And I am, like, dramatically opposed to those.
But I… I'm… I'm…
Trying to find words to say.
How do we not look at all of this and say, there's nothing in here that we can talk about, or that we can agree on, or that whatever else?
So, uh, Gil, please.
Somebody can be both smart and not in their right mind.
somebody can be smart about certain things and stupid about other things. Somebody can be, you know, can be effective in certain ways, and…
Um, uh, you know, ineffective in other ways. And this guy is complicated.
Uh, and that's part of the challenge here. Um, you know, again, I don't think we're seeing the same facts. I sometimes hop between MSNBC and Fox News.
In the evening. And you'd think they're on different planets.
stories just, you know, covered on one, not covered at all on the other, not just covered differently, but just not covered at all. Things that we might think totally important.
Not there all week on Fox.
So, there's that as kind of one of the bases of it.
Um, um…
But I hear… I hear and really resonate, Jerry, with what you're saying, um, because we're… there's a tendency
And I don't think this is left or right, maybe it's modern capitalist culture of really
polarizing and calling things black and white that are complex, and, you know, washing out nuance.
Um, and, um, yeah, and it's part of the mess that we're in.
I've shared before, uh, you know, a friend I've made on the Magarite.
introduced by a mutual friend who we both love and trust, and uh…
We had a fascinating first conversation.
Uh, ostensibly, it was going to be about climate, and I was going to change his mind about things, and uh…
discovered him changing my mind about things around supply-side economics and other stuff.
We came out of that conversation loving each other.
We're still friends, we still disagree.
We have changed these as… you know, we sometimes… we occasionally agree in surprising ways, and often don't.
But we found a way to have that different kind of conversation that you're talking about.
Um, I'm just back from the Sustainable Brands Conference in San Diego, and one of the presentations on
Monday was from a guy named Bill Shireman. He's a longtime friend of mine, who's probably my favorite Republican environmentalist.
Um, yeah, and um…
used to, uh, used to organize with Nader, um, around, uh, uh,
the California Bottle Bill.
Um, and parted ways on other political issues. Bill did a presentation about how to talk to MAGA.
And one of the things you did, one of the… one of the pieces that stood out was he set up a pair of slides of four MAGA people and four progressive people.
And said, look, you know, these sides are not at all the same.
you know, on the Republican side, you got, you know, you've got Bannon and you've got Pence, and you've got Alex Jones, and you've got, uh, whoever, Mike Johnson.
Not all the same people, not all the same thinking, analyses, political positions, and so forth, but we lump them.
And you can do the same thing on the left.
Uh, and it's very easy to, you know, to…
Humans seem to love to categorize.
We do.
Uh, we love… we love to take shades of gray, as Dave might talk about, and try to, you know, try to delineate them and put them into boxes, and say, this is this and not that.
Uh, and real often in the physical world, it's not that way. Even around things like shades of Ray and colors. You know, we've talked about the
The color maps that are red… red and named differently.
In different cultures. You know, what I will call blue someone in Japan will call green.
So how do we have a conversation that doesn't acknowledge that?
and Russian apparently has 4 different words for blue, yeah.
So, um… so this is… this is really important territory, and it's very challenging, and we're in a culture that doesn't support
the kind of conversation that you're proposing that we have.
Thanks, Gil.
Yeah.
Any thoughts on this? Where do we go with this? What, um… Kalia, you mentioned in the chat,
that the left is, like, throwing itself on the spike of very narrow issues that are truly controversial.
Any other thoughts on what you wish would happen here?
I mean… hmm…
Yeah, I have…
Can't hear you, Julia.
Um, Kalia, why don't you turn your video off, because the audio is clipping a lot.
I'm assuming we operate in here under Chatham House Renewals, because I have opinions.
And if you have the video off, we'll probably hear you better, because we're…
I'd love to hear you.
Um, sir.
Are we… okay. I mean, I assume we operate here under Chatham House rules, because I have opinions in this space that…
have already gotten me canceled.
Wait, hang… I'm sorry to interrupt, but Jerry, you post these videos publicly, don't you?
Yeah, so just be aware of that, Khalil.
I do. Um, so Kalia… so, Kalia, these videos go straight to YouTube, and we don't operate under Chatham House.
And I've never made that declaration up front, so if you want to not say what you're going to say,
We will totally understand.
I… then you can't even bring up what I said, and I should never have said anything in chat, so I'm sorry. That's how intense this issue is, and I'd ask you to take this out of the video before you post it.
Okay.
Sorry, I can't even talk.
Oh, wow. Can you tell me what… I'm sorry.
Thanks, Kalia.
Adam House rules it. You tell me what…
Sure. Chatham House is an organization in England, and when you say something is under Chatham House rules, it means
You, uh, everything that's said under this… in this meeting,
Which cannot be identified with the speaker. You can't say, so-and-so said this. You can, my understanding under Chatham House is, you can write about what got said,
You just can't attribute it to anybody without their agreement. So if you need to quote
If Kevin said something that you want to write about in an article, you'd have to contact Kevin, get his approval.
to say Kevin said it, but I believe you can still say someone said X.
Yes.
Right.
But you can't reveal who was there, because sometimes.
Right. Yeah.
Correct.
Thank you.
saying that this was said. will be immediately linked to the one person in the room who would have said it.
Yep. Yep.
Yep, yep. And I… Jerry, I was not clear about this for a long time. I was very surprised when I first discovered that OGM was being posted to YouTube, because I had talked about very personal things.
In these meetings that I assumed were just among us. So, the ground rules
should be made more clear, especially if there's new people coming in.
I have a question, because I think in the posting to YouTube.
The chat is not shared, it's just the video, correct?
I don't post the chat on YouTube, but I do make the chat very available.
Right. But I mean, in terms of this particular session and CALIA.
what you raised in the chat. It wasn't voiced in the video.
So, I think you're okay.
Oh, I… yeah, that's fine, and I… but I will, I will, um, I don't usually edit these. I will edit, uh, Kalia's drop-in,
And now it's much more complicated because we're talking about it, so I'm gonna have to edit twice.
But I will also clip what, uh, Kalia wrote in the chat.
Uh, as well.
Before I share the chat back up.
Cool, then that… that didn't work so well, my apologies.
And I should mention more often that these videos I do post directly, I'm a big believer in sort of open conversations, and these videos do go
to YouTube, and that will have an effect on, uh,
what we decide to talk about, and I'm…
quite aware of that. Um…
So, my apologies for not…
repeating that more often, because we actually all should be quite aware of that.
Doug.
So, yeah, I… I, um… I was really… it… I was really intrigued by your… your intro to this session.
And had… had… an experience in the last 24 hours with a post.
that, um… sort of… the combination of the two, I think, is… is… is worth sharing. So there was… there was a post that… did, like, a serious drill down on… our current…
Um, Supreme Court… head, um, and his relationship and history with the Voting Rights Act.
which is long and deep and anti. with a capital A.
And I read this piece, which was… very grounded, very credible, and… Um, shed him for me in a completely different light.
Like, I've experienced his position as sort of an.
an unknown quasi-neutral? in terms of the personae that I think he's publicly attempted to achieve.
for himself, Roberts. Um, but what this post made clear was, um, no, he's hardcore.
ideologue about certain things related to presidential power and related to.
killing the Voting Rights Act. And… there was the theater and Illusion, the public persona, and then there was the Oh.
that. And then connecting that to… So we know which way this whole redistricting thing is going to come out.
Um, and it's not going to be good. And, um…
And my… orientation to receiving that recalibration. Like, it was exactly what you described in the.
Intro to this session of receiving something that's just like, oh.
was… I can be reactive to that, or… I can just sort of recalibrate.
my understanding of the world. Like, that's the way that piece of the existing puzzle.
is, in fact… And, um… It gives me a better sense of.
the degree to which. Effectively, the… The court system has been zeroed out as well.
Well, while the, sort of. wishful thinking, underlying sense impression up to that moment was, maybe there's some salvation to be had out of the court system, but no, it's been done, like, taken care of.
Mm-mm.
Going back to… going back to when this guy was a law clerk for Rehnquist.
And, um, and it was sort of like… Um.
there are all those knock-on recalibration, reconfiguration of. the way of seeing what is.
as sort of a ripple effect. It's sort of an update of the vision of the map, of the picture.
Can you describe that a little bit more?
Yeah, so… you know, if I'm carrying this mosaic of.
you know, the state of… our government, and it's… it's decimation.
Um, and I'm looking for pockets of integrity being held. I'm looking for.
pockets of structural, you know, persistence against. the destruction and collapse.
Uh, and I believe there are still some features of that landscape effective functioning and operating.
And all of a sudden. like, the one sort of remaining pillar.
Uh, that… that held some promise is neutralized… is zeroed out.
So, effectively, it's all gone. And how bad… Will they make it? How bad does it get?
how much will that…
manifest, you know, in consequences. And I'm, you know, picking up… data bits about… failure sectors in the economy.
That are not public, you know, that haven't been, like, highlighted.
you know, the number of. farmer, uh, bankruptcy filings under, under, under 12.
is going through the roof. And, uh, and they're not… they don't have the labor to harvest crops.
So, like, that, you know, how soon do the supermarket shelves start going there?
you know, this is, like, now. This isn't some objective future, this is now.
And, um… you know.
since the… the current course doesn't suggest.
actions within agencies. are being governed by any sense of rule of law anymore.
So, you know, when does Social Security check stop?
For me, because of whatever category I fall into.
or whatever office gets decimated through layoffs. So, it's… it's, um… It's very much, uh, trying to… find clarity.
personal clarity, sense of balance. what is reality, you know, what is my reality?
Now… I don't… I really endeavor… to not react.
But to figure out, you know, how to relate.
It's not even rising to the level of how to respond.
Or how to act, or do, or whatever. Like, that's a whole secondary thing. It's like.
how to… how to relate. to the scale and scope of… of… changing reality, uh, and find my ground first.
before going to the okay. So, is there a way I want to respond or directly engage?
in… in some kind of collaborative way, or… communication or… or… you know, engagement way, like… going on Saturday to the local.
You know, no kings. demonstration.
So, just slowing it down. Oh! Um, and checking in.
Um, thanks, Doug.
So I just, yeah, I'm complete.
You've brought a bunch of things into my…
brain that I want to share out.
Um, first,
I'm among probably a large group of Americans who are pretty convinced that, um, ICE tracking down immigrants, a lot of whom are agricultural farm workers,
And, uh, the tariffs and all that kind of stuff would lead to, by now, buy now,
pretty miserable inflation and food shortages and other kinds of things.
Um, there are… there are some price bumps, but…
I don't… I don't think that… I don't think that dreadful future has materialized. The system has adapted
And this… the ball… the shoe may drop later, I don't know.
But, uh, but it didn't materialize the way the catastrophizers said immediately. It was going to. And that happens
all the time on all sides, right?
So, that reminded me of the book Super Forecasting,
Uh… by Philip Tetlock.
And he talks… he talks in the book about what makes a good forecast, and the problem is that most futurists and forecasters and all that make crappy forecasts, where…
You really can't tell whether they were right or wrong.
And that's the sign of a good weasel forecast, is you say something that gets you some news,
And that can't be pinned down later on. It's like, ah, I was just off on the date, it happened but 5 years later. Like, yeah, that was a bad forecast.
And so he has criteria with the Good Judgment Project.
And he's found some people who are really, really good super forecasters.
And I'm wondering to what extent, and this would be a very nice sense-making, global-brain-y kind of thing,
To what extent can or should
people writing about stuff try to do better on these fronts, and then judge themselves afterward. And I highly respect
bloggers and substackers and other sorts of people who occasionally say, hey, here's how I did on last year's
predictions or on last, you know, whatever it is, when they go back and grade themselves, even if sometimes they're a little lenient on themselves,
That's interesting, because at least there's some kind of feedback loop
of what's happening there, right?
Um, so, uh, I'm very interested in the feedback and the social feedback, and also then I'll add
Forecasting is really hard because some of these systems that we're talking about, like global warming, tipping points, and all that,
Deeply nonlinear, and by the time you detect the third dot or the fourth dot, the fifth dot is
way the hell north of where you thought it was gonna be, and we're in serious, serious trouble, and how do you… how do you use
the feedback I'm describing and public discourse and news and other sorts of things that are…
heightened that are improved in some way by doing
some of what I just described.
Um, in a situation where, when one of these things runs amok, it could run really amok.
the way Trump handles foreign policy,
Man, if Putin feels cornered and decides to throw nukes, that's gonna change the game considerably, right? And I don't know how these things play out.
But, um, but I'm wondering how all that, uh…
how all that works. Gil, please.
Totally yes, Jerry.
And, um, you know, again, it's the hazard of, of, uh…
you know, the lack of sensitivity and complexity.
And for people to see nuance and see complex systems and understand the cause and effect is not all that it's cracked up to be.
Uh, and how do you navigate, uh, in the midst of all that uncertainty?
Uh, on the prediction thing, the great Ken Watt was trying to put together something decades ago to do a systematic retrospective analysis of predictions.
Which I don't know if anybody's ever done. Um, you know, you look at market touts who are predicting the same thing for decades, and then all of a sudden they're right when that thing happens, you know, but they've been saying it every year, forever.
I've been describing myself lately as a futurist who's given up predicting the future.
Do you think it's a fool's game at this point.
Um, something else I wanted to say about the…
Um, the Institute for the Future says we don't do predictions, we make forecasts, which are
practical, plausible projections of something that might happen in the future, but we don't know, and nobody can tell which one's gonna play out.
Yeah, yeah.
Great. Right.
Yeah, and, you know, and that's the power of scenario analysis, among other tools, exactly for that. People think it's predictive, but it's not. It's for… it's to sensitize us to…
possibility. Uh, and hopefully change the way that we think about stuff.
Um, there was something else I wanted to say, but it slipped, so…
Off to someone else.
Oh, yeah, yes, the thing you said, Jerry, about, um…
Uh, we haven't seen the impact of the farm labor shortage yet. Don't get too confident.
Uh, it's still the first season. There's still more harvest to come. It's, uh…
you know, I don't have… I don't have detailed analysis on it, but the mood that I'm getting is that there's a mess looming.
I hear ya. Um…
Yeah.
And I'd love to sort of say that that means this number by this date, or something. And I don't know that I challenge OGMers to…
to always pin things down that way, but we might… we might want to have a session
About what a good forecast looks like, and just train ourselves a bit. Go find a couple videos and have somebody
Yeah.
Volunteer to brief us.
For sure.
on how to be more precise about forecasts.
For sure. Let me personalize a bit, coming off of what Doug said. Um, on the Social Security thing, we've been looking at a bunch of financial and real estate decisions, and early this year,
We decided that we couldn't make certain moves because Social Security might just get yanked.
Which would completely change how our spectrum.
financial options. We've come to the conclusion now that it's probably not going to get yanked for folks like us.
you know, on… on… been… we've been on Social Security for 10 years, etc.
Uh, for folks coming into the system, very much at risk. People not yet retired,
don't count on it at all. People may be a year or two in, may be at risk. I think for later folks, probably not.
But, again, so there's a calculation.
based on very incomplete data and all sorts of stuff that we have no way to know anything about.
And yet, we have to make decisions.
And one of the more stressful things we've worked through, that we can remember.
And decision-making under uncertainty is one of those monster themes, right?
Um, Stacy, please.
Yeah, um, speaking to your idea about prediction, as I was thinking about this yesterday, because as you know, I'm interested in engaging.
people in conversations. And I was just thinking it would be so nice if we could have a conversation that starts with.
If this is true, then we would expect to see this.
If this is true, we would expect to see this. My particular area that I was focused on has to do with immigration.
Because I'm trying to convince the people in my community.
that this is a money grab and a for-profit detention, because I'm combating the local.
misinformation that's going on. What I'm actually seeing… I mean, in one case, I'm very happy, after somebody was.
detained for over 2 months. they were finally released.
I'm grateful they were released. I don't want to throw attention on the judges that are eventually releasing the people.
But at the same time, I have a feeling we're going to look back.
And we're gonna see all this money that was spent detaining people.
to finally release them back to their families. So to me, it would be productive to say.
Okay, let's look at that. That's one scenario. Let's see how many people, after they finally show up in court.
we wind up sending back. At least if we could have a conversation, and maybe.
have that… taped. Have that drive the spotlight to look on individual cases.
And what's going on locally, where, on a local level, we really see firsthand.
who's getting targeted, and why they're getting targeted, and all those things.
It could bring the people in the middle together. You know, Gil put in the chat that the speaker had said that one way of looking at the difference.
between the left and the right is that the right look, you know, the right are, like, looking at themselves as protectors.
And the left is liberators, and to a certain degree, I think that's true, and for me, I always look at the intersection.
You know, where are those people right in the middle? Because depending on who I'm talking to.
I try to get them to see the other piece that they're missing. So, like, if I'm talking to that protector person.
I'm going to recognize that in showing how this action is a protecting one.
And vice versa. But, um, again, we're always behind the eight ball of predicting, like, why can't we jump ahead.
and get together, all of us, and say, okay, everybody, let's brainstorm.
We're not saying who's right or wrong. If this is the case.
This is what we're gonna see. If this is the case.
This is what we're going to say. Let's just agree on… What would happen if.
instead of digging down on, this is what's happening.
So, some… thanks, Stacy. So, making these…
Over.
forecasts, and I'll use the word very loosely, more provisional or conditional on some facts on the ground, or things like that.
Um, I think that makes sense.
Yeah.
It's the meaning on what the measurement would… Like, let's just agree on that, because also.
It will help people come in at a beginner's level and generate some ideas.
Like, let's just start at the beginning's level.
Yeah. You've also reminded me that the same administration that is
doing those kinds of things, um, has unmarked cars on the street with, uh,
ICE people who have no badges visible and have masks on, who are abducting people.
And, um, I grew up partly in Argentina. I'm old enough that we left Argentina just before the dirty war started.
And I went back in…
Uh, 89, I guess, at some point? I think… no, sorry, 80… in 85.
I had a project, actually, that took me to Buenos Aires, Argentina, and uh… as a goodbye gift, they gave me the book Nunca Mas,
Which means never again, which is a book compiled out of
All of the testimonies from the Truth and Reconciliation Commissions that happened in Argentina after the Dirty War.
And one of the interesting factors in Argentina was, during the dirty War,
Um, the Ford Falcon.
A dark green Ford Falcon was a very scary car to see in the street, because that's what the military police and others used
To abduct people. So if a Ford Falcon pulled up in front of your house, they were probably gonna, like,
search you and maybe take you away, and maybe you wouldn't be seen again.
And so, for me, the idea that
people on American streets, and I won't say American citizens, because maybe they're not, I don't know, but people walking down American streets are being abducted
Uh, with no identification, and we don't know where they go, is deeply
Deeply frightening, because it leads…
for me, straight to things that I…
think are horrible historically.
Um… and I don't know which parts of that little narrative to complexify and to say, oh, but, and this there, and I don't know.
I don't know. It's, um, it's… these are… we live in troubling, uh, scary times.
And I'm… part of this conversation is to say
How do we handle these conversations in a way that lets us be… remain
a bit pliable or permeable.
Uh, so that we can find more understanding, and so forth.
Alright, Gil, go ahead.
And, um…
you know, put the masked… the masked armed thugs in unmarked vehicles together with stand-your-ground laws.
And then what happens?
Well, also, um…
the Black Panther Party,
originally was the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, I believe.
Mm-hmm.
And they, um…
found a law that said you can
stand, uh, you can be armed and stand as long as you're X number of yards or feet away from police,
You can stand there armed and watch them and, you know, it's legal.
Uh, and so…
No, but legal… but we're in a time when legal doesn't matter.
I totally agree.
Because what they're doing is not legal, and they're, you know, and they're arresting people who are standing there videoing them from across the street.
So, yeah.
Yeah, they're operating in extra-legal ways, and one of my fears is that the court system, the entire legal system, is now disabled.
Well, hang on, um…
Yeah. Good.
One of the other talks at Sustainable Browns was from Andrew Winston, uh, saying that… I'm gonna go a little sideways for a moment here, saying that he keeps… he's a major speaker to sustainable business, and he's always asked, he says,
is sustainability dead?
And he said, no, it's not dead, it's under attack.
Which is different. You know, and things aren't under attack unless there's reason for them to be attacked. So, same thing here. The court system is not over, it's very much under threat.
Uh, most of the decisions, uh, I mean, there's, like, hundreds of lawsuits against these guys, and most of them, they have lost.
Um, what's up for question is where the Supremes are gonna go.
Uh, because we're at the mercy here of a 40-year project by Rehnquist and Alito to do what they're doing.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, this was laid out back during the Nixon administration.
Or when I were rigging, I guess is what they were under. They were not… they're not quite old enough for that.
Um, um, you know, so we don't know. You know, there's this voting rights decision that could come this week or next week that could change, you know, that could lock the elections down.
For a long time to come, if we have elections. So, I don't mean to make light of it, uh, but the courts are an important battleground.
Um, uh, notable yesterday, I don't know if people saw this on the news, but pretty much unified the national news organizations refused to
to sign Pete Hegseth's loyalty oath.
And maybe people are starting to realize that, uh, that instead of letting, uh, Trump pick you off one by one, as surprisingly the major law firms did.
And a lot of the universities did.
People can actually forge common purpose and fight back.
Um, and what does that mean in terms of bad Supreme Court decisions? I don't know.
Um, but I'm not, you know, game ain't over till the fat lady's sung, or whatever the…
the expression is, and…
She ain't sung yet.
Surprised that saying had so much, you know, such long legs.
Over time.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the Pat Lady had short legs, but that's a different thing.
Yeah, who knows?
Anyone else? Thoughts on this topic?
concerns…
disagreements? Wishes.
Should we search topics?
No, it's obviously time to be quiet for a while.
We could be quiet for a little while, see what shows up.
quiet. Um… I do think one of the strategies you outlined at the very start.
is being quiet long enough to understand that you may have been wrong about something you assumed to be right.
And, um… unfortunately, we're not given time to do that anymore.
I mean, I don't think we've been given time to do that for 30 or 40 years.
Um, we used to have, and I still go to church, and there's some meditation time there, but.
Even that is typically 30 seconds, you know? I mean, if we have a really meaningful sermon, maybe there'll be 2 minutes where people just kind of.
And, you know, what do I want to take home from this?
But I do think we… We're so overstressed, we're so sleep-deprived.
that we… we don't know how to handle the, uh… confused inputs that are coming from all these different directions and contradicting themselves.
One of my favorite hashtags lately has been discombobulation.
You know, disinformation… Leads to deception.
leads to discord. Leads to discombobulation.
leads to… despair and or apathy.
And that's a short step to dictatorship. Because if enough people just sit on the sidelines and throw up their hands and say, I don't know what's going on.
That's where we end up.
Um, two…
Two reactions to what you just said, Mike.
One positive, one negative. The negative one is,
One of the current tactics of the current, at least, far-right, is to flood the zone with shit.
That is a very explicit tactic, that if you have people too busy
to deal with, they'll just drop everything. And also,
Too confused about which side to be on, because, oh, wait a minute, the baddie is funding the good guys that I'm listening to, maybe I should stop listening to the good guys?
And, uh, there's a documentary I love called Hypernormalization by Adam Curtis.
Where he talks about Putin and his lieutenant Serkov,
who were doing this for years, years ago. They were sort of busy honing this, perfecting this art of flooding the zone with shit.
And that's happening.
Um, but on the other hand, maybe this is the positive side? I don't know. This is also about attention management.
And, uh, Ken Homer just sent us a love… wrote us a lovely poem, you know, that he just read to us.
about stepping out of the torrent and the conversations and things like that.
And it's not that we aren't given the time, it's that we don't make the time.
I think that it's possible, and when there's too much information, I don't mean you can subtly, magically make the time to know all of that and to sort it out.
I think what you do is you step out of it and have focus on something else.
But, uh, there's a growing little niche
In the world about how do you cope with change, and how do you maintain equanimity,
in the face of actual turbulence and political turbulence and emotional turbulence and other kinds of things that are happening.
And that's probably a good topic for an OGM call at some point, uh, as well.
guilties.
Yeah, it is… it is a good topic.
Um, one of the things we've done in our house is dramatically cut down on our news diet.
So I suggest that as a possibility. Um, on the matter of time and quiet, and Mike, thanks for what you said.
Um, I don't know if people have watched Charlie Kirk's…
competitive debate.
Forum. He… I've seen Mehdi Hassan do this on the left, and Charlie Kirk do this on the right, where they sit at a table,
So it's like a chess match table, small table, facing off, and they're surrounded by a circle about 20 or 30 people.
And anybody in the circle gets to come in and sit down opposing them and have a conversation with them.
And it's like… it's like… what's the term for speed chess? You know, where you have the clock and you're moving really fast?
It's a high-speed competitive debate format.
Um, and it's interesting because it's, you know, it's showing off a kind of cognitive and communication skill.
But it allows for no thought.
Allows for no reflection. Allows for no consideration. Highly polarizing.
And, um, it's really, really weird to watch. I've seen both these guys do it, and I hate both of them doing it.
I watched one with Mehdi doing it, and I was really turned off. He was… everybody was interrupting everybody.
Yeah, and he's like, you know, he's writing everybody's… I mean, there are things that I agree with him on, and found him hate… found myself hating him.
Uh, and it's… and in all of these things, back to what we were saying before, it's taking potentially complex or complicated issues and saying,
No, it's not complicated.
One of the reasons I stepped out of Facebook, which I did, like, a month ago now, is that I was in conversations where people were kind of, you know,
Not even people I knew. People who knew people I knew were jumping into conversations I was having and yelling at me, saying, it's not complicated. What's the matter with you?
I think my guy really is, so…
So I decided to step back. It's another kind of quiet, less social media.
We're very selective social media.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Which, reminder, we all know this here, but it's worth remind… remembering that in that machinery, we are the product.
We think it's something that we're using. We're the product.
Anytime the service is free.
you know, the product.
So, I'll stop here.
Well, I'm not sure any… I'm not sure that with the conclusion, anytime the service is free, we are the product, because the incommons and in a different world, on a
parallel plane in the multiverse.
Totally.
Um, lots of things can be free, and it's not because we are the product being sold off, it's because
I heard that as I was saying it, Sherry.
Yeah, yeah.
We're actually sharing resources in an abundant way, yada yada yada, probably another good topic for an OGM call.
Like that. Like…
Yeah, with Kevin and his Mennonite carpenters, not bad at all. Totally, totally get it.
Like that, exactly. So thank you for that.
Scott, please.
Uh, Scott, you need to unmute.
You're muted.
Scott, you need to come back to the keyboard. There you are, good.
Yes, we're hearing you now.
All right, how about now? How about now? All right. I'm actually on the road, so I will, uh… But… so you can all hear me?
Yes, you sound like you're in a car, but we can hear you just fine.
Yep.
All right. I am in a car, but I will try to make it less… Let's cars out. Um… I am enjoying this particular call in its entirety more than I have in a while.
I am seeing or hearing. a humbleness of certainty.
that I… or uncertainty, rather. I'm not exactly sure how to say that.
I'm appreciating everyone saying, you know, this is something… that I wasn't expecting.
And it's making me think about something differently. And I'm actually open to that.
And I think that that is, um… If there is a route.
That's, you know, our current crisis, I think that that's.
Definitely one of them. is that we are… I don't know if anybody saw, I wrote in the Plex.
this most recent issue about. compression.
Mm-hmm, yep.
Sometimes I have a phrase that comes out, and I don't actually.
Will it come out? It just comes out, and then I see it, and I think, huh.
That's actually kind of neat. And it was, uh… consuming more of less.
And I thought that was interesting, because the way I thought of that after I read it.
after the words came out, I thought. Yeah, that's really what it is. It's just… this idea of… I already know what that is, so I don't need to consume any more of it.
And I go look for the next thing, and the next thing, without actually really getting into the thing that.
I've already summed up, in some way. But, um… Sorry, my thoughts are a little all over the place. I appreciated Stacy's comments about.
making predictions, and then making second predictions. And just… putting some stake in there, instead of saying, I know exactly what's gonna happen.
And we're probably wrong. at least in some way, we're probably wrong. I appreciated your.
comment, Jerry, about, um. you know, futurists and trying to make predictions, and… guesses, and then actually being.
held accountable to. to at least the prediction.
You know, I think that that's all really important, and it's a humbleness.
I think that's my only deep here. It's the willingness to say, you know.
I bet I don't see everything. I bet I don't know everything.
And if something shows up. Am I willing to incorporate that into my own mental model, allow it to be changed?
Thank you very much. Totally, really appreciate your reflections on
On the nature of this column.
you're calling things out I hadn't really noticed about the call, which I love.
So, that's great.
Anyone else? Thoughts?
Actually, let's go into that little moment of silence that Gil mentioned a moment ago.
I will bring us back out in a moment.
Thank you very much.
reflections, jokes?
Other things?
Stacy.
I did have one other thing, actually, that I forgot to mention.
Go ahead, and then Stacey.
Sorry, Jerry. when I was reading your email about.
precipitated this. Here's the theme of the call. I was thinking of that.
quote that I will misquote slightly. Which is, it's amazing… which you can get done if nobody cares who gets the credit.
So, I'm just throwing that out there. I don't know if you want to.
riff on that a little bit, but if that's what it seemed like.
was happening, um. This is, you know, it sees fire, awesome!
Right? Like, that's kind of what we want. But… there's the issue of credit.
And… and that is part of it, at least.
Thank you. The quote I have is from Harry Truman.
It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.
And it's very likely one of those things that's been said by…
Actually, there's a quote investigator article about this that has a whole bunch of other people saying it, and their phrase is, a man may do an immense deal of good if he does not care who gets the credit. And I'll post both of those in the chat.
See? See?
I thought Craig Vonnegut said that.
It was Al Gore's favorite quotation when he was vice president, partly because it was said by a previous vice president when he was vice president and invisible.
And every time Gorin tried to stand up and take credit for something.
Boom! They just… they worked so hard to make sure… He, uh, was misrepresented, misquoted.
At one point, he got excited about a project, a very cheap satellite, that was going to orbit in the L1 point between the.
Earth and the Sun, and provide 24-hour-a-day coverage. of the sunny side of the Earth.
I mean, literally less than $200 million. And, uh, as a NASA project goes, that's pretty darn cheap.
And the Senate Republicans held it up for 5 years, just because Gore thought it was a good idea.
The entire community thought it was a great idea, incredibly cost-effective, but… They held it up. They didn't want him getting any credit for anything. They knew he was gonna run for… for president, and they didn't want him to have any accomplishments.
Which is a marvel to me because
Gore is Obama's…
Oh, sorry.
Clinton's vice president.
I've got the… yeah, Clinton's vice president, that's right. And the… because later, later,
Um, Obama… I'm pretty certain the right doesn't want Obama to succeed on anything.
And he does. He manages to have the economy just go chug, chug, chug, chug, chug, and he manages to pass some degree of
of health coverage and so forth, that they've not been able to extinguish. I track in my brain the many times that the right has tried to get rid of Obamacare.
And it's an astonishing, really, there have been astonishing battles fought to try to, you know,
get rid of it. They've managed to weaken it, but not get rid of it entirely.
At this point, at this point, the thing we haven't mentioned for 3 calls or whatever is the lockdown
And, uh, the government showdown over the budget.
And, uh, the shut… the government shut down,
And one of the big issues is the continuation of the subsidies that allow Obamacare to be affordable. That is one of the monster issues on the table that the Democrats
They've decided is a hill to die on for this particular issue, and it feels to me like the Democrats have the sort of
moral upper hand on this one, although
public opinion and moral upper hand don't always agree.
Fortunately, there's alliteration against them. Schumer's shutdown.
Yeah.
Schumer shut down out. There you go.
But yeah, 40 times, I think, they had votes or tried to… put a poison pill into the Obamacare program.
Yeah, yeah, it's astonishing.
And I gotta say,
Trump too, which is how I refer to the second Trump administration,
is payback for…
Milk toast efforts within the bounds of the system to try to fight back on things that the right didn't like.
And I'm sitting here thinking, SCOTUS,
The Supreme Court of the United States is very Republican because they stole seats because
The left didn't act up and say, hey, wait a minute, you can't do that. We're gonna do something dramatic,
Thank you.
to make sure that we get to vote on those seats. Like, like, two seats on Supreme Court.
we're basically stolen, as far as I can tell.
I'm… I don't understand, Jay, that you say that's… that that's…
Yep.
Trumpist reaction to what the Dems did.
What we're seeing is the playing out of a 50-year explicitly written-about strategy.
Also, yes.
So, let's, you know, I think it's mythification to say, oh, they're angry at the Democrats who did or didn't do whatever. This has been…
you know, they've been rolling out this game plan since 1973.
Uh, since the PAL memo in 70, I think.
Yeah, yeah, Powell memos…
What was that one? Was that… I have the date wrong then, so I'm talking… I'm referencing the pal… referencing the PAL memo.
Yep.
And if people haven't seen it, there's a movie called Heist, The Stealing of the American Dream.
that unfolds that story. It's a terrific piece of work. I'll find the link and post it for y'all.
Please do.
I'm not sure it doesn't trace back to the Civil War, Gil.
Well, there's that, too, and you can take it back, you know, another 100 years before that. But in terms of an explicit published strategy.
Um, and in the spirit of, you know, Maya Angelou, when people tell you who they are, believe them.
You've got that there, you've got Bannon's writings, you've got Dugan's writings in the Russian sphere.
Um, none of this is mysterious.
Uh, yes, and…
Unless you get your information from the mass media, in which case it's mysterious.
So I… I… I'm… I agree with your framing of this is a much longer battle than I was just saying.
Uh, partly, I think what I'm… what I was trying to say is,
The rights attempts to stay within the lines of
the legal system, et cetera, et cetera, did not work.
They tried to bring things to the floor. The reason, I think,
that most of what Trump does is by executive order and fiat and just acting outside of the bounds of what we think is…
what is likely even legal to do, is that bringing things to the floor of Congress did not work for a long time. Trump won,
Trump won, and a bunch of other efforts to tip over, you know, all these things.
We're flailing.
flailing. And the left is grateful that a bunch of adults in the room threw their bodies in front of
The more radical things that Trump won wanted to do. And in between Trump 1 and Trump 2,
Everybody on the far right said, well, great, that didn't work.
We're going to take a much more, much more dramatic approach.
Which is a fulfillment of things set in motion back in 1970, et cetera, et cetera.
Which was a reaction to Barry Goldwater losing the election in 64.
Which, through the Conservative Party into a dramatic crisis.
Yep.
into a huge identity crisis, out of which come these, I think,
Long-term thinking brilliant strategies, and I don't see long-term thinkers on the left.
And sorry, this has become a bit of a political conversation toward the end of our time together, but
Um… thoughts on this other ways of seeing this welcome.
Please, um, throw them onto the table.
I don't think Powell contemplated Trump.
Um, I don't think Newt Gingrich contemplated a Trump. Like, Newt…
I think Powell… I think Powell was enough of an old, you know, small L liberal.
Yeah.
Um, to not be looking for a coup. He was looking for, you know, playing out within the game.
Gingrich, um…
Um, in Jane's interpretation, gets a lot of credit.
Yes.
for the mess. Because when he became Speaker, he changed the schedule.
of the House of Representatives.
And basically…
Uh, he did many things.
Yeah, but this one is a pivotal one, because he shortened the work week so that members could go home on the weekends.
Mm-hmm.
quote, to be with their constituents.
But the result of that is that the social relationships between Republican and Democrat members and their families
And their wives who had been friends.
broke. And maybe was one of the pivotal
One of the pivotal elements in the increasing polarization in the House.
So, in my brain, I've got a thought, Gringrich created the current political rift in America. Under that, ways Gingrich transformed Congress.
Hmm.
Uh, do not cooperate, do not compromise, do not see bipartisan solutions ever on anything.
Uh, they got rid of, uh,
basically, uh, he stopped people from
He instituted message discipline he wouldn't let Republicans room with Democrats. They used to share crash pads in D.C.
Hmm.
They would rent a house with 4 bedrooms, and then Republicans and Democrats would room together and dine together and all that.
Hmm. Yeah.
Damn.
He made that basically illegal. He said, he said, you do that, we're not gonna fund you for the primary.
And, you know, having a throttle,
on the primaries was, uh,
a huge, uh, power…
power move that really worked. So…
Did you share the link to that piece of the brainchair?
Thank you.
I just… I just put a link in the chat to Ways Gingrich transformed Congress. I did that before, I said,
started screen sharing.
Yeah. Thank you.
There was a wonderful article in, uh, what was it, uh, Harper's years ago, about, uh, I think it was called The Family?
Was that the name of it? Um…
Could be, sounds familiar?
staggering. Staggering. Basically, it was a, um…
It… it…
It was a club.
Uh, uh, slash… it was, in effect, a condo.
Um…
a co-housing sort of situation, where a whole bunch of Republican, um…
legislators were living together in a plex. Like, it was like a polycule. It was absolutely incredible. And this thing had been set up in the, uh, in, uh…
It's the fellowship.
the… is it the fellowship?
Is this…
Christian fundamentalist thing, so there's a mini-series called The Family,
Hmm.
Um, which was on Netflix, which was about the fellowship, and there's also a book called
the family, the secret fundamentalism at the Heart of American Power. I think you mean that.
Hmm.
Yeah, yeah. I think it was founded in about 57 or something, is when the visionary, uh, had the vision.
35.
1935, holy cat.
35, the fellowship. Hold on, let me do a screen share again.
Uh, because I've got all this stuff in my brain.
Anyway, incredible, incredible situation.
So here, uh, so the… here's the fellowship, A Secret Society of Christian Fundamentalists.
uh… funded by a lot of conservatives who hated the New Deal, because this is against the New Deal.
Uh, Abraham Varreideg, Douglas Coe, names I don't remember even putting in my brain. But then in 2019, there was a mini-series,
about it, uh, called the family. I'm just going to connect these things to my brain.
I mean, to… these are my notes from today's call.
And so the fellowship is basically the start of that.
Okay. Anyway, everybody should know about this. It's… it is…
It's really the essence, perhaps, of how the machine
works on the right.
And their main facility is a mile from where I live, and I often jog past it.
Wow.
It's hidden away in the woods. In Arlington, Virginia.
Triple.
And it's mostly occupied by. 20-somethings conservative Christian.
men and women who may become their wives. Uh, and they all commute to the hill where they work for various conservative.
Of course, of course the left has an equivalent, you know, instrument just like this. It's called the Zen Center of San Francisco.
But, huh, thank you.
Um, anyway, well, we've gone down this rabbit hole pretty deep. Any other thoughts along this line?
I think, Gil, when you were saying this is a long, thought-out strategy, it's been playing out for a long time, I completely agree.
Really?
And I fear that there are many more terrific strategists on the right than on the left.
On the left are a bunch of well-intentioned people who think policy is how to do things and want to build big institutions to solve social problems.
Which I think is a problematic approach to social problems.
I actually do.
And who trusts reason and fairness more than power.
But the other…
Yes, and on the right are a bunch of people who understand power, and working together,
more than all those other things.
The other thing the right has had, though, which is…
Wow. Let me just tell them what Mike.
Oh, I thought, I thought… I thought ice was at your door.
Or something. Um, um…
is, um, large, consistent, stable funding.
Yes.
that built institutions and built farm teams and trained people, but…
I mean, I'm on the, uh, I'm on the board of a fiscal sponsor, so I deal with a bunch of not-for-profits and foundations and so forth, and the amount of grief
that folks have to go through to get funding.
Hmm.
The micromanagement that the foundations have over the folks they fund, the amount of time that's spent in reporting rather than doing the work.
is horrific, and it's an echo in a lot of layers of American society, because you look at the growth of the administrative layer in everything from universities to healthcare to everywhere else.
There's that mess, but, you know, with Scafy and Mellon and various others on the right, there's been very consistent funding, and
I guess the other part of this, which is maybe problematic to the left, is that for the right, it's a very good investment.
It has paid off quite well.
Buying congresspeople is an incredibly good investment. The ROI's terrific.
And that's not the language of the left, that's the language of the right, and they've been playing that.
for a long time, very effectively.
So…
Totally agree. Um, there's my tracking of conservative foundations.
Yeah, and the fellowship.
the Koch Foundation's SCAFE… is it Scafy?
I think… I think so, I don't know.
Koch Family Heritage,
Bradley, Lynn and Harry Bradley Foundation, Smith Richardson Foundation, these are all
Deeply conservative foundations that have funded
the movement we just talked about. So you're right. And, and…
The left… ah.
I'm busy listening very carefully for any progressive who's saying something different.
Hmm.
and sensible. And I'm not hearing any. I'm hearing a couple who…
have struck authenticity, they're figuring out how to connect with people, that's great.
But their messages don't sound any different from a traditional, uh,
progressive. And I'm… I'm…
really concerned that this is a battle of…
ideologies where the left
doesn't have a grip on any layer of how to do this better or right.
So, Jerry, um…
How could that be different?
I… that's a… that's… so I'm… I'm really interested in how to…
Let's have that be a topic.
Yeah.
I'm really interested in how to build a better world, and some of the calls we've had, I mean, we had a little series on what works in governance,
Um, we had… I think I did 4 calls on… on little g governance instead of big G government.
And my goal was to try to collect up a stack. Right now, my shorthand for this is, what are our next two stacks?
And try to figure out what is a set of
ways of doing decisions and making collective decisions as society and solving problems.
What is a way of open sourcing those things so that communities can just grab them and implement them?
As opposed to telling everybody to do X or Y or Z.
Because I think people are rejecting mandates left, right, and center, so how do we make things
so functional and so appealing,
that, um…
I don't know that I know Neighborhoodos, Kalia, thank you.
I'm going to go look it up. Um…
Hmm.
How do we… how do we… how do we…
put on offer a bunch of things that we know work in some places, and then make it very, very easy for other communities to implement them.
And in a non-political way, because the left-right party system
is stuck in everything we've been talking about for 87 minutes.
Right? And so…
How do… how do we make some alternate way of living together and making an abundant society
happen, um, that gen… that then grows up from the bottom, and then if somebody wants to make a political party out of that, great.
But they'll at least have some foundation to work from.
I think… I think… there's a… there's an orientational… Shift… That's… that's not about… ways of doing things.
I really think there's a… What's… what's been lost?
What's missing in technology? And what's missing in… The capitalist system, which is really at the root of a lot of this.
Um, is… Any moral, ethical, or value-orientation, transcendent of individual interest.
Relative to the capitalist driver, which is profit. And, um… all of the structures and all of the… ways in which.
underlying moral, ethical value considerations and empathy. It's a fundamental human… caring. Um… were supported had to do with.
the… the actual…
societal fabric. supporting connection between people, caring.
of people for other people. And all of that's been sort of.
denatured out of the system.
And, um… The question is how to sort of… not provide… you can't provide that.
But what I think and believe is that. We… we can spark it.
And that the feelings that are in that domain of.
empathy, and… care and value, and ethic.
Um… feels better, and that the younger generations today.
are actually… there's a vacuum. where that belongs, where that exists, where that can be.
catalyzed, and anything that could come along. to offer that, I think, would explode, like.
what happened in the 60s. Except for those generations.
I don't think they're so less. But if you look and watch at what… Culturally, they're… swimming around, and it sure looks like it.
But I think they're… they recognize the absence of.
I think they're feeling the absence of. I don't think anybody's offering them.
that.
By some quirk of fate, we are right at the end of our call time, but that sounds like a really lovely thing, a lovely note to end our call on.
I'm afraid we won't have Ken Homer around for a bit.
Um, so we are poemless at the end of our call, which I… leaves a little gap in my heart.
But thank you for, um,
Joining in wholeheartedly in this conversation. I really, I really appreciate it.
feedback afterthoughts, put them on the OGM mailing list.
And let's see where this goes. Um, Kalia, does it make sense to have an OGM call about verifiable communities, so we can learn more and understand what the initiative is?
Sorry.
Taar, if you want to invite Grace.
That'd be great.
Yeah.
Cool.
Um, she's just about to have a whole deck about the initiative, so that's good timing.
She's just about to have a what?
a deck.
a deck? Super. That is good timing.
Awesome.
So close.
Um, thank you all. This has been, uh…
really informative, groovy, and slightly frightening call.
I will see you on the inner tubes, and uh… in another week.